The orange open movie project presents
Introductory titles are showing on the background of a water pool with fishes swimming and mechanical objects lying on a stone floor.
elephants dream
Two people stand on a small bridge.
The old man, Proog, shoves the younger and less experienced Emo on the ground to save him from being mowed down by a barrage of jack plugs that whir back and forth between the two massive switch-board-like walls.
The plugs are oblivious of the two, endlessly channeling streams of bizarre sounds and data.
Emo sits on the bridge and checks his limbs.
After the squealing plugs move on, Proog makes sure that Emo is unharmed and urges him onwards through a crack in one of the plug-walls.
They walk through the narrow hall into a massive room that fades away into blackness on all sides.
Only one path is visible, suspended in mid-air that runs between thousands of dangling electric cables on which sit crowds of robin-like robotic birds.
As Proog and Emo enter the room, the birds begin to wake up and notice them.
Realizing the danger, Proog grabs Emo by the arm.
They run along the increasingly bizarre path as the birds begin to swarm.
All sound is blocked out by the birds which are making the same noises as the jack-plugs, garbled screaming and obscure sentences and static.
The path dead-ends, stopping in the middle of no-where above the infinite drop.
Proog turns around as the birds reach them and begin to dive-bomb at them.
At the last moment, Proog takes out an old candlestick phone and the birds dive into the speaker piece.
The screen cuts to black.
In the next scene, Proog stands at one end of a room, suspiciously watching what is probably the same candlestick phone, which is ringing.
Emo watches from the other side of the room.
The phone continues to ring.
After a while Emo approaches it to answer it, but Proog slaps his hand away.
Proog takes the ear-piece off the hook.
The phone speaker revealed a mass of clawed, fleshy polyps which scream and gibber obscenely.
There is a solemn silence as Emo looks around the room and the technical objects therein.
Emo laughs disbelievingly and Proog walks away.
In the next scene, the two enter another massive black room.
There is no path, the entry platform is the only structure that seems to be there except for another exit, lit distantly at the far side.
Proog takes a step forward into the void, and his feet are suddenly caught by giant typewriter arms that rocket up out of the blackness to catch his feet as he dances across mid-air.
Emo follows Proog with somewhat less enthusiasm as the older man leads the way.
They reach the end of the room and go through a hall into a small compartment.
Proog presses a button, and the door shuts.
It is an elevator.
The elevator lurches suddenly as it is grabbed by a giant mechanical arm and thrown upwards, rushing up through an ever-widening tunnel.
When it begins to slow down, another arm grabs the capsule and throws it even further up.
As it moves up, the walls unlock and fall away, leaving only the floor with the two on it, rushing higher and higher.
They exit the tunnel into a black sky and the platform reaches the peak of its arc.
The elevator begins to drop down another shaft, coming to rest as it slams into the floor of another room and bringing the two to a level stop.
A camera flashes.
They are in a large, dingy room filled with strange, generator-like devices and dotted with boxy holographic projectors.
One of them is projecting a portion of wall with a door in it right beside them.
The door seems harmless enough.
From behind the door comes light music.
Proog presses a button on his cane, which changes the holograph to another wall.
Proog finishes the wall, and boxes them into a Safe Room, out of the view of anything outside.
Proog slaps him, trying to bring him to his senses.
Emo storms away down the length of the room towards a wall he apparently cannot see and the wall begins to move, extending the length of the room.
The walls begin to discolour and mechanical roots start tearing through the walls to his left.
The roots move forwards toward Proog.
The rest of the safety wall crumples away as a pair of massive hands heave out of the ground and begin to attack.
Proog is knocked down by the shockwave, while Emo turns and begins to walk away, waving his finger around his temple in the 'crazy' sign.
In a last effort, Proog extricates himself from the tentacle roots, and cracks Emo over the back of the head with his cane.
As Emo collapses, everything falls away, and Proog and Emo are left in one tiny patch of light in the middle of blackness.
The scene fades to black while panning over a pile of tentacle roots lying on the ground.
Credits begin:
Orange Open Movie Team
Director: Bassum Kurdali
Art Director: Andreas Goralczyk
Music and Sound Design: Jan Morgenstern
Emo: Cas Jansen
Proog: Tygo Gernandt
Screenplay: Pepijn Zwanenberg
Original Concept & Scenario: Andreas Goralczyk, Bassam Kurdali, Ton Roosendaal
More people for
Additional Artwork and Animation
Texture Photography
Software Development
3D Modelling, Animation, Rendering, Compiling Software
Special Thanks to Open Source Projects
Rendering Services Provided
Hardware  Sponsored
Casting
Sound FX, Foley, Dialogue Editing, Audio Mix and Post
Voice Recording
HDCam conversion
Netherlands Media Art Institute Staff
Blender Foundation Staff
Many Thanks to our Donation and DVD sponsors
Elephants Dream has been realised with financial support from
The Netherlands Film Fund
Mondriaan Foundation
VSBfonds
Uni-Verse / EU Sixth Framework Programme
Produced By
Ton Roosendaal
Copyright 2006
Netherlands Media Art Institute / Montevideo
Blender Foundation